README.md, before:

# NeoSavage

A Discord bot for **Savage Worlds** tabletop RPG mechanics, written in JavaScript using Discord.js.

## Features

### 🎲 Dice Rolling
- **Basic Rolls**: `/roll dice:2d6+3`, `/roll dice:d20`, `/roll dice:3d8-2`
- **Acing Dice**: Exploding dice (reroll and add on max value) - use `!` modifier
- **Wild Die Rolls**: Savage Worlds signature mechanic - roll trait die + wild die, keep highest
- **Automatic Raises**: Calculate success and raises based on target number
- **Keep/Drop**: Keep highest/lowest dice, advantage/disadvantage (`k`, `kl`, `adv`, `dis`)
- **Target Numbers & Raises**: Specify target numbers and raise intervals (`t4`, `r4`)
- **✨ Flexible Modifiers**: Write modifiers in ANY order! `s10+5r2t5`, `3d6!+5k2`, `3d6+2kl2` all work

### ⚔️ Combat & Initiative
- **Card-Based Initiative**: Deal playing cards for initiative order (Savage Worlds style)
- **Edge Support**: Quick, Level Headed, Improved Level Headed edges
- **Round Management**: Track rounds with `/initiative round`
- **Fight Management**: Start and end combat encounters with `/fight start` and `/fight end`

## Installation

### Option 1: Docker (Recommended)

The easiest way to run the bot with all dependencies pre-installed:

```bash
# 1. Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>

# 2. Create .env file in the deploy directory
cd deploy
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your Discord bot token

# 3. Build and run with Docker Compose
docker-compose up -d

# View logs
docker-compose logs -f

# Stop the bot
docker-compose down
```

**Note**: The Docker build uses the pre-generated parser files from `src/parser/` to ensure compatibility with the antlr4 runtime version (4.9.3). If you need to regenerate the parser, do so locally with ANTLR 4.9.2 before building the Docker image.

### Option 2: Manual Installation

1. Clone the repository
2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Generate the ANTLR4 parser** (required for advanced dice expressions):
   ```bash
   # Install ANTLR4 globally (one-time setup)
   npm install -g antlr4

   # Generate the parser
   npm run generate-parser
   ```

   **Important**: The project uses `antlr4` runtime version **4.9.3** to match the parser generator (ANTLR 4.9.2). If you regenerate the parser with a different ANTLR version, you may need to adjust the runtime dependency in `src/package.json` accordingly, or manually update the generated parser files to use the correct namespace imports (`antlr4.atn.ATNDeserializer` and `antlr4.dfa.DFA`).

   See `SETUP_PARSER.md` for detailed parser setup instructions.

4. Create a `.env` file (copy from `.env.example`):
   ```env
   DISCORD_TOKEN=your_bot_token_here
   CLIENT_ID=your_client_id_here
   GUILD_ID=your_guild_id_here
   ```

5. Run the bot:
   ```bash
   npm start
   ```

   Or for development with auto-reload:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

## Commands

### Dice Rolling
- `/roll dice:[expression]` - Roll dice with flexible expression syntax
  - Examples: `2d6+3`, `d20!`, `s8t4`, `4d6k3`, `2d20adv`
- `/wild trait:[d4-d12] modifier:[number] target:[number] raise:[number]` - Savage Worlds wild die roll

### Combat
- `/fight start` - Start a new fight
- `/fight end` - End the current fight

### Initiative
- `/initiative deal characters:[names]` - Deal initiative cards
  - Options: `quick:[true/false]`, `level_headed:[true/false]`, `improved_level_headed:[true/false]`
- `/initiative show` - Show initiative order
- `/initiative round` - Start new round

### Help
- `/help` - Show dice rolling guide and examples

## Advanced Dice Rolling (R2 Grammar)

The bot includes full support for the R2 dice expression grammar with automatic parser generation during Docker build:

### Supported Syntax

**Generic Rolls**
- `XdY` - Roll X dice with Y sides (e.g., `2d6`, `d20`)
- `XdY!` - Exploding dice (reroll and add on max)
- `XdY kN` - Keep highest N dice (e.g., `4d6 k3`)
- `XdY kl N` - Keep lowest N dice
- `2d20 adv` / `2d20 dis` - Advantage/Disadvantage
- `XdY sN` - Count successes ≥ N (e.g., `10d6 s5`)
- `XdY sN fM` - Count successes ≥N and failures ≤M
- `XdY tN rM` - Target number N with raises every M

**Savage Worlds**
- `sX` - Savage Worlds roll (trait die with wild die)
- `sX wY` - Specify wild die size (e.g., `s8 w6`)
- `eX` - Extras roll (single acing die)
- `4e6` - Multiple extras rolls

**Other Systems**
- `XdF` - Fudge/FATE dice
- `XdC` - Carcosa dice
- `XW` - West End Games D6 (with wild die)
- `pX` - Sword World power roll

**Advanced Features**
- `X--Y` - Gygax range roll (e.g., `1--100`)
- `NxExpression` - Batch roll (e.g., `5x2d6`)
- `@var := Expression` - Variable assignment
- `Expression[min:max]` - Bound result
- Arithmetic: `+`, `-`, `*`, `/`, `%`
- `--flag` - Flags for special behaviors

**Repeat Expressions**
- `NxExpression` - Batch roll (e.g., `5x2d6`, `3xs8t4`)

## Examples

### Basic Dice Roll
```
/roll dice:2d6+3
> 🎲 2d6+3
> Result: 11
> Details: [4, 4] +3
```

### Acing Dice
```
/roll dice:d6!
> 🎲 d6!
> Result: 14
> Details: [6! +6! +2]
```

### Savage Worlds Roll (using /roll)
```
/roll dice:s8t4
> 🎲 Savage Worlds: s8
> Trait Die: [6]
> Wild Die: [3]
> Result: 6 (used trait die)
> ✅ Success! (TN: 4)
```

### Wild Die Roll (using /wild)
```
/wild trait:8 modifier:2 target:4
> 🎲 Wild Die Roll: d8+2
> Trait Die: [8! +3] = 11
> Wild Die: [4] = 4
> Final Result: 13 (used trait die)
> ✅ Success with 2 raises! (TN: 4)
```

### Keep Highest (D&D Advantage)
```
/roll dice:2d20adv
> 🎲 2d20 advantage
> Result: 17
> Details: [17, 8] → kept highest
```

### Initiative
```
/initiative deal characters:Grog, Valeria, Zephyr
> 🎴 Initiative Cards Dealt:
> Grog: K♠
> Valeria: 7♥
> Zephyr: 🃏 Joker (Red)
```

## Discord Bot Setup

### 1. Create Discord Application

1. Go to [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications)
2. Click **"New Application"**
3. Enter a name for your bot (e.g., "NeoSavage")
4. Click **"Create"**

### 2. Create Bot User

1. Go to **"Bot"** tab in the left sidebar
2. Click **"Add Bot"**
3. Customize the bot's username and avatar if desired
4. **Copy the bot token** - you'll need this for your `.env` file

### 3. Configure Bot Permissions

#### Required Intents (Bot → Privileged Gateway Intents)
- ❌ **PRESENCE INTENT** - Leave OFF
- ❌ **SERVER MEMBERS INTENT** - Leave OFF  
- ✅ **MESSAGE CONTENT INTENT** - **MUST BE ENABLED** (prevents "disallowed intents" error)

#### Bot Permissions (OAuth2 → URL Generator)
**Scopes:**
- ✅ `bot`
- ✅ `applications.commands`

**Bot Permissions:**
- ✅ **Send Messages**
- ✅ **Use Slash Commands** 
- ✅ **Embed Links**
- ✅ **Attach Files**
- ✅ **Read Message History**

### 4. Invite Bot to Server

1. Go to **OAuth2 → URL Generator**
2. Select the scopes and permissions listed above
3. Copy the generated URL
4. Open the URL in your browser
5. Select your Discord server and authorize the bot

### 5. Configure Environment

Create a `.env` file (copy from `.env.example`):
```env
DISCORD_TOKEN=your_bot_token_here
```

### 6. Get Required IDs

**Bot Token:** Found in Bot tab (step 2)

### Troubleshooting

**"Used disallowed intents" error:**
- Ensure **MESSAGE CONTENT INTENT** is enabled in Bot settings
- Save changes and restart the bot

**Commands not appearing:**
- Verify bot has `applications.commands` scope
- Bot may take up to 1 hour to register global commands (it is usually way faster)

**Permission errors:**
- Ensure bot has required permissions in the channel
- Check bot role is above other roles that might restrict permissions

**ANTLR Parser errors (`ATNDeserializer is not a constructor`):**
- This occurs when the ANTLR runtime version doesn't match the parser generator version
- **Solution 1** (Recommended): The `antlr4` runtime is set to version 4.9.3 in `src/package.json`. Run `npm install` in the `src` directory to ensure the correct version is installed.
- **Solution 2**: If you regenerated the parser with a different ANTLR version, update the `antlr4` dependency in `src/package.json` to match your ANTLR generator version.
- **Solution 3**: Manually fix the generated parser files to use the correct namespace:
  - In `src/parser/R2Parser.js`, change `new antlr4.ATNDeserializer()` to `new antlr4.atn.ATNDeserializer()`
  - In `src/parser/R2Parser.js`, change `new antlr4.DFA(` to `new antlr4.dfa.DFA(`

## Running Tests

The project includes comprehensive test suites for dice expression parsing and evaluation.

### Run All Tests
```bash
# From the project root
node tests/run-all-tests.js
```

This will execute all test suites and provide a detailed summary with:
- Individual test suite results
- Pass/fail counts
- Execution time per suite
- Overall test summary

### Test Suites Included
- **Normalize Expression Tests**: Tests for expression normalization and modifier reordering
- **Parser Integration Tests**: Tests for parser with normalized expressions

### Example Output
```
🎲 Dice Expression Test Suite
Starting comprehensive test execution...

================================================================================
Running: Normalize Expression Tests
Tests for expression normalization and modifier reordering
================================================================================

✓ Normalize Expression Tests passed in 0.45s

================================================================================
OVERALL TEST SUMMARY
================================================================================
✓ Normalize Expression Tests (0.45s)
✓ Parser Integration Tests (0.52s)
================================================================================
Total Suites: 2
Passed: 2
Failed: 0
Total Duration: 0.98s
================================================================================

✨ All tests passed!
```

## License

MIT

## Credits

Based on the original [Savagebot](https://github.com/alessio29/savagebot) by alessio29, rewritten in JavaScript.

Commit message:

refactor: Added note about arithmetic not being tested and potential issues with modifiers reordering

README.md, after:

# NeoSavage

A Discord bot for **Savage Worlds** tabletop RPG mechanics, written in JavaScript using Discord.js.

## Features

### 🎲 Dice Rolling
- **Basic Rolls**: `/roll dice:2d6+3`, `/roll dice:d20`, `/roll dice:3d8-2`
- **Acing Dice**: Exploding dice (reroll and add on max value) - use `!` modifier
- **Wild Die Rolls**: Savage Worlds signature mechanic - roll trait die + wild die, keep highest
- **Automatic Raises**: Calculate success and raises based on target number
- **Keep/Drop**: Keep highest/lowest dice, advantage/disadvantage (`k`, `kl`, `adv`, `dis`)
- **Target Numbers & Raises**: Specify target numbers and raise intervals (`t4`, `r4`)
- **✨ Flexible Modifiers**: Write modifiers in ANY order! `s10+5r2t5`, `3d6!+5k2`, `3d6+2kl2` all work

### ⚔️ Combat & Initiative
- **Card-Based Initiative**: Deal playing cards for initiative order (Savage Worlds style)
- **Edge Support**: Quick, Level Headed, Improved Level Headed edges
- **Round Management**: Track rounds with `/initiative round`
- **Fight Management**: Start and end combat encounters with `/fight start` and `/fight end`

## Installation

### Option 1: Docker (Recommended)

The easiest way to run the bot with all dependencies pre-installed:

```bash
# 1. Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>

# 2. Create .env file in the deploy directory
cd deploy
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your Discord bot token

# 3. Build and run with Docker Compose
docker-compose up -d

# View logs
docker-compose logs -f

# Stop the bot
docker-compose down
```

**Note**: The Docker build uses the pre-generated parser files from `src/parser/` to ensure compatibility with the antlr4 runtime version (4.9.3). If you need to regenerate the parser, do so locally with ANTLR 4.9.2 before building the Docker image.

### Option 2: Manual Installation

1. Clone the repository
2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Generate the ANTLR4 parser** (required for advanced dice expressions):
   ```bash
   # Install ANTLR4 globally (one-time setup)
   npm install -g antlr4

   # Generate the parser
   npm run generate-parser
   ```

   **Important**: The project uses `antlr4` runtime version **4.9.3** to match the parser generator (ANTLR 4.9.2). If you regenerate the parser with a different ANTLR version, you may need to adjust the runtime dependency in `src/package.json` accordingly, or manually update the generated parser files to use the correct namespace imports (`antlr4.atn.ATNDeserializer` and `antlr4.dfa.DFA`).

   See `SETUP_PARSER.md` for detailed parser setup instructions.

4. Create a `.env` file (copy from `.env.example`):
   ```env
   DISCORD_TOKEN=your_bot_token_here
   CLIENT_ID=your_client_id_here
   GUILD_ID=your_guild_id_here
   ```

5. Run the bot:
   ```bash
   npm start
   ```

   Or for development with auto-reload:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

## Commands

### Dice Rolling
- `/roll dice:[expression]` - Roll dice with flexible expression syntax
  - Examples: `2d6+3`, `d20!`, `s8t4`, `4d6k3`, `2d20adv`
- `/wild trait:[d4-d12] modifier:[number] target:[number] raise:[number]` - Savage Worlds wild die roll

### Combat
- `/fight start` - Start a new fight
- `/fight end` - End the current fight

### Initiative
- `/initiative deal characters:[names]` - Deal initiative cards
  - Options: `quick:[true/false]`, `level_headed:[true/false]`, `improved_level_headed:[true/false]`
- `/initiative show` - Show initiative order
- `/initiative round` - Start new round

### Help
- `/help` - Show dice rolling guide and examples

## Advanced Dice Rolling (R2 Grammar)

The bot includes full support for the R2 dice expression grammar with automatic parser generation during Docker build:

### Supported Syntax

**Generic Rolls**
- `XdY` - Roll X dice with Y sides (e.g., `2d6`, `d20`)
- `XdY!` - Exploding dice (reroll and add on max)
- `XdY kN` - Keep highest N dice (e.g., `4d6 k3`)
- `XdY kl N` - Keep lowest N dice
- `2d20 adv` / `2d20 dis` - Advantage/Disadvantage
- `XdY sN` - Count successes ≥ N (e.g., `10d6 s5`)
- `XdY sN fM` - Count successes ≥N and failures ≤M
- `XdY tN rM` - Target number N with raises every M

**Savage Worlds**
- `sX` - Savage Worlds roll (trait die with wild die)
- `sX wY` - Specify wild die size (e.g., `s8 w6`)
- `eX` - Extras roll (single acing die)
- `4e6` - Multiple extras rolls

**Other Systems**
- `XdF` - Fudge/FATE dice
- `XdC` - Carcosa dice
- `XW` - West End Games D6 (with wild die)
- `pX` - Sword World power roll

**Advanced Features**
- `Expression[min:max]` - Bound result
- `NxExpression` - Batch roll (e.g., `5x2d6`, `3xs8t4`)
- Arithmetic: `+`, `-`, `*`, `/`, `%` (not tested and might have difficulties with the modifiers reordering)
- `X--Y` - Gygax range roll (e.g., `1--100`)

## Examples

### Basic Dice Roll
```
/roll dice:2d6+3
> 🎲 2d6+3
> Result: 11
> Details: [4, 4] +3
```

### Acing Dice
```
/roll dice:d6!
> 🎲 d6!
> Result: 14
> Details: [6! +6! +2]
```

### Savage Worlds Roll (using /roll)
```
/roll dice:s8t4
> 🎲 Savage Worlds: s8
> Trait Die: [6]
> Wild Die: [3]
> Result: 6 (used trait die)
> ✅ Success! (TN: 4)
```

### Wild Die Roll (using /wild)
```
/wild trait:8 modifier:2 target:4
> 🎲 Wild Die Roll: d8+2
> Trait Die: [8! +3] = 11
> Wild Die: [4] = 4
> Final Result: 13 (used trait die)
> ✅ Success with 2 raises! (TN: 4)
```

### Keep Highest (D&D Advantage)
```
/roll dice:2d20adv
> 🎲 2d20 advantage
> Result: 17
> Details: [17, 8] → kept highest
```

### Initiative
```
/initiative deal characters:Grog, Valeria, Zephyr
> 🎴 Initiative Cards Dealt:
> Grog: K♠
> Valeria: 7♥
> Zephyr: 🃏 Joker (Red)
```

## Discord Bot Setup

### 1. Create Discord Application

1. Go to [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications)
2. Click **"New Application"**
3. Enter a name for your bot (e.g., "NeoSavage")
4. Click **"Create"**

### 2. Create Bot User

1. Go to **"Bot"** tab in the left sidebar
2. Click **"Add Bot"**
3. Customize the bot's username and avatar if desired
4. **Copy the bot token** - you'll need this for your `.env` file

### 3. Configure Bot Permissions

#### Required Intents (Bot → Privileged Gateway Intents)
- ❌ **PRESENCE INTENT** - Leave OFF
- ❌ **SERVER MEMBERS INTENT** - Leave OFF  
- ✅ **MESSAGE CONTENT INTENT** - **MUST BE ENABLED** (prevents "disallowed intents" error)

#### Bot Permissions (OAuth2 → URL Generator)
**Scopes:**
- ✅ `bot`
- ✅ `applications.commands`

**Bot Permissions:**
- ✅ **Send Messages**
- ✅ **Use Slash Commands** 
- ✅ **Embed Links**
- ✅ **Attach Files**
- ✅ **Read Message History**

### 4. Invite Bot to Server

1. Go to **OAuth2 → URL Generator**
2. Select the scopes and permissions listed above
3. Copy the generated URL
4. Open the URL in your browser
5. Select your Discord server and authorize the bot

### 5. Configure Environment

Create a `.env` file (copy from `.env.example`):
```env
DISCORD_TOKEN=your_bot_token_here
```

### 6. Get Required IDs

**Bot Token:** Found in Bot tab (step 2)

### Troubleshooting

**"Used disallowed intents" error:**
- Ensure **MESSAGE CONTENT INTENT** is enabled in Bot settings
- Save changes and restart the bot

**Commands not appearing:**
- Verify bot has `applications.commands` scope
- Bot may take up to 1 hour to register global commands (it is usually way faster)

**Permission errors:**
- Ensure bot has required permissions in the channel
- Check bot role is above other roles that might restrict permissions

**ANTLR Parser errors (`ATNDeserializer is not a constructor`):**
- This occurs when the ANTLR runtime version doesn't match the parser generator version
- **Solution 1** (Recommended): The `antlr4` runtime is set to version 4.9.3 in `src/package.json`. Run `npm install` in the `src` directory to ensure the correct version is installed.
- **Solution 2**: If you regenerated the parser with a different ANTLR version, update the `antlr4` dependency in `src/package.json` to match your ANTLR generator version.
- **Solution 3**: Manually fix the generated parser files to use the correct namespace:
  - In `src/parser/R2Parser.js`, change `new antlr4.ATNDeserializer()` to `new antlr4.atn.ATNDeserializer()`
  - In `src/parser/R2Parser.js`, change `new antlr4.DFA(` to `new antlr4.dfa.DFA(`

## Running Tests

The project includes comprehensive test suites for dice expression parsing and evaluation.

### Run All Tests
```bash
# From the project root
node tests/run-all-tests.js
```

This will execute all test suites and provide a detailed summary with:
- Individual test suite results
- Pass/fail counts
- Execution time per suite
- Overall test summary

### Test Suites Included
- **Normalize Expression Tests**: Tests for expression normalization and modifier reordering
- **Parser Integration Tests**: Tests for parser with normalized expressions

### Example Output
```
🎲 Dice Expression Test Suite
Starting comprehensive test execution...

================================================================================
Running: Normalize Expression Tests
Tests for expression normalization and modifier reordering
================================================================================

✓ Normalize Expression Tests passed in 0.45s

================================================================================
OVERALL TEST SUMMARY
================================================================================
✓ Normalize Expression Tests (0.45s)
✓ Parser Integration Tests (0.52s)
================================================================================
Total Suites: 2
Passed: 2
Failed: 0
Total Duration: 0.98s
================================================================================

✨ All tests passed!
```

## License

MIT

## Credits

Based on the original [Savagebot](https://github.com/alessio29/savagebot) by alessio29, rewritten in JavaScript.
