savagebot-js/README.md, before:

# Savagebot JS

A Discord bot for **Savage Worlds** tabletop RPG mechanics, written in JavaScript using Discord.js.

## Features

### 🎲 Dice Rolling
- **Basic Rolls**: `/roll 2d6+3`, `/roll d20`, `/roll 3d8-2`
- **Acing Dice**: Exploding dice (reroll and add on max value)
- **Wild Die Rolls**: Savage Worlds signature mechanic - roll trait die + wild die, keep highest
- **Automatic Raises**: Calculate success and raises based on target number

### ⚔️ Combat & Initiative
- **Card-Based Initiative**: Deal playing cards for initiative order (Savage Worlds style)
- **Edge Support**: Quick, Level Headed, Improved Level Headed edges
- **Round Management**: Track rounds and automatically deal new cards
- **On Hold**: Put characters on hold during combat

### 🎲 Benny Management
- **Grant Bennies**: Give bennies to characters
- **Spend Bennies**: Track benny usage
- **List View**: See all characters and their benny counts
- **Mode Support**: Standard and Deadlands modes

### 🎯 Character States
- **State Tracking**: Shaken, Stunned, Vulnerable, Distracted, etc.
- **Add/Remove**: Manage character conditions
- **Visual Display**: Emoji-based state display

## Installation

### Option 1: Docker (Recommended)

The easiest way to run the bot with all dependencies pre-installed:

```bash
# 1. Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>
cd savagebot-js

# 2. Create .env file
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your Discord bot token

# 3. Build and run with Docker Compose
docker-compose up -d

# View logs
docker-compose logs -f

# Stop the bot
docker-compose down
```

### Option 2: Manual Installation

1. Clone the repository
2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Generate the ANTLR4 parser** (required for advanced dice expressions):
   ```bash
   # Install ANTLR4 globally (one-time setup)
   npm install -g antlr4

   # Generate the parser
   npm run generate-parser
   ```

   See `SETUP_PARSER.md` for detailed parser setup instructions.

4. Create a `.env` file (copy from `.env.example`):
   ```env
   DISCORD_TOKEN=your_bot_token_here
   CLIENT_ID=your_client_id_here
   GUILD_ID=your_guild_id_here
   ```

5. Run the bot:
   ```bash
   npm start
   ```

   Or for development with auto-reload:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

## Commands

### Dice Rolling
- `/roll dice:[expression] acing:[true/false] modifier:[number]` - Roll dice
- `/wild trait:[d4-d12] modifier:[number] target:[number]` - Wild die roll

### Combat
- `/fight start` - Start a new fight
- `/fight end` - End the current fight

### Initiative
- `/initiative deal characters:[names] quick:[true/false] level_headed:[true/false]` - Deal cards
- `/initiative show` - Show initiative order
- `/initiative round` - Start new round

### Bennies
- `/benny grant character:[name] count:[number]` - Grant bennies
- `/benny spend character:[name]` - Spend a benny
- `/benny list` - List all bennies
- `/benny clear character:[name]` - Clear bennies

### Character States
- `/state character:[name] action:[add/remove/clear/show] state:[state_name]` - Manage states

### Help
- `/help` - Show command help

## Advanced Dice Rolling (R2 Grammar)

After generating the ANTLR4 parser, the bot supports the full R2 dice expression grammar:

### Supported Syntax

**Generic Rolls**
- `XdY` - Roll X dice with Y sides (e.g., `2d6`, `d20`)
- `XdY!` - Exploding dice (reroll and add on max)
- `XdY kN` - Keep highest N dice (e.g., `4d6 k3`)
- `XdY kl N` - Keep lowest N dice
- `2d20 adv` / `2d20 dis` - Advantage/Disadvantage
- `XdY sN` - Count successes ≥ N (e.g., `10d6 s5`)
- `XdY sN fM` - Count successes ≥N and failures ≤M
- `XdY tN rM` - Target number N with raises every M

**Savage Worlds**
- `sX` - Savage Worlds roll (trait die with wild die)
- `sX wY` - Specify wild die size (e.g., `s8 w6`)
- `eX` - Extras roll (single acing die)
- `4e6` - Multiple extras rolls

**Other Systems**
- `XdF` - Fudge/FATE dice
- `XdC` - Carcosa dice
- `XW` - West End Games D6 (with wild die)
- `pX` - Sword World power roll

**Advanced Features**
- `X--Y` - Gygax range roll (e.g., `1--100`)
- `NxExpression` - Batch roll (e.g., `5x2d6`)
- `@var := Expression` - Variable assignment
- `Expression[min:max]` - Bound result
- Arithmetic: `+`, `-`, `*`, `/`, `%`
- `--flag` - Flags for special behaviors

## Examples

### Basic Dice Roll
```
/roll dice:2d6+3
> 🎲 Roll: 2d6+3
> Result: 11
> Breakdown: 4 + 4 + 3
```

### Acing Dice
```
/roll dice:d6 acing:true
> 🎲 Roll: d6
> Result: 14
> Breakdown: [6+6+2]
```

### Wild Die Roll
```
/wild trait:8 modifier:2 target:4
> 🎲 Wild Die Roll: d8
> Trait Die: [8+3] = 11
> Wild Die: 4 = 4
> Final Result: 13 (used trait die)
> Success with 2 raises (TN: 4)
```

### Initiative
```
/initiative deal characters:Grog, Valeria, Zephyr
> 🎴 Initiative Cards Dealt:
> Grog: K of ♠️ Spades
> Valeria: 7 of ♥️ Hearts
> Zephyr: 🃏 Red Joker
```

## Bot Setup

1. Create a Discord application at https://discord.com/developers/applications
2. Create a bot user
3. Enable the following intents:
   - Guilds
   - Guild Messages
   - Message Content
4. Invite the bot to your server with the `applications.commands` scope
5. Copy the bot token and client ID to your `.env` file

## License

MIT

## Credits

Based on the original [Savagebot](https://github.com/alessio29/savagebot) by alessio29, rewritten in JavaScript.

Commit message:

feature: Add R2 Parser
- Add R2 dice parser implementation documentation.

- Introduce comprehensive testing for R2 dice parser.

- Update README for automatic parser generation during Docker build.

- Enhance command.js to support R2 grammar in dice rolling.

- Complete r2Evaluator.js with full visitor methods implementation.

- Add test-parser.js script for testing R2 dice parser.

- fix: Correct command.js to fallback to basic parser when R2 parser is not generated.

- fix: Ensure r2Evaluator.js properly imports parser components and handles errors gracefully.

savagebot-js/README.md, after:

# Savagebot JS

A Discord bot for **Savage Worlds** tabletop RPG mechanics, written in JavaScript using Discord.js.

## Features

### 🎲 Dice Rolling
- **Basic Rolls**: `/roll 2d6+3`, `/roll d20`, `/roll 3d8-2`
- **Acing Dice**: Exploding dice (reroll and add on max value)
- **Wild Die Rolls**: Savage Worlds signature mechanic - roll trait die + wild die, keep highest
- **Automatic Raises**: Calculate success and raises based on target number

### ⚔️ Combat & Initiative
- **Card-Based Initiative**: Deal playing cards for initiative order (Savage Worlds style)
- **Edge Support**: Quick, Level Headed, Improved Level Headed edges
- **Round Management**: Track rounds and automatically deal new cards
- **On Hold**: Put characters on hold during combat

### 🎲 Benny Management
- **Grant Bennies**: Give bennies to characters
- **Spend Bennies**: Track benny usage
- **List View**: See all characters and their benny counts
- **Mode Support**: Standard and Deadlands modes

### 🎯 Character States
- **State Tracking**: Shaken, Stunned, Vulnerable, Distracted, etc.
- **Add/Remove**: Manage character conditions
- **Visual Display**: Emoji-based state display

## Installation

### Option 1: Docker (Recommended)

The easiest way to run the bot with all dependencies pre-installed:

```bash
# 1. Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>
cd savagebot-js

# 2. Create .env file
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your Discord bot token

# 3. Build and run with Docker Compose
docker-compose up -d

# View logs
docker-compose logs -f

# Stop the bot
docker-compose down
```

### Option 2: Manual Installation

1. Clone the repository
2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Generate the ANTLR4 parser** (required for advanced dice expressions):
   ```bash
   # Install ANTLR4 globally (one-time setup)
   npm install -g antlr4

   # Generate the parser
   npm run generate-parser
   ```

   See `SETUP_PARSER.md` for detailed parser setup instructions.

4. Create a `.env` file (copy from `.env.example`):
   ```env
   DISCORD_TOKEN=your_bot_token_here
   CLIENT_ID=your_client_id_here
   GUILD_ID=your_guild_id_here
   ```

5. Run the bot:
   ```bash
   npm start
   ```

   Or for development with auto-reload:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

## Commands

### Dice Rolling
- `/roll dice:[expression] acing:[true/false] modifier:[number]` - Roll dice
- `/wild trait:[d4-d12] modifier:[number] target:[number]` - Wild die roll

### Combat
- `/fight start` - Start a new fight
- `/fight end` - End the current fight

### Initiative
- `/initiative deal characters:[names] quick:[true/false] level_headed:[true/false]` - Deal cards
- `/initiative show` - Show initiative order
- `/initiative round` - Start new round

### Bennies
- `/benny grant character:[name] count:[number]` - Grant bennies
- `/benny spend character:[name]` - Spend a benny
- `/benny list` - List all bennies
- `/benny clear character:[name]` - Clear bennies

### Character States
- `/state character:[name] action:[add/remove/clear/show] state:[state_name]` - Manage states

### Help
- `/help` - Show command help

## Advanced Dice Rolling (R2 Grammar)

The bot includes full support for the R2 dice expression grammar with automatic parser generation during Docker build:

### Supported Syntax

**Generic Rolls**
- `XdY` - Roll X dice with Y sides (e.g., `2d6`, `d20`)
- `XdY!` - Exploding dice (reroll and add on max)
- `XdY kN` - Keep highest N dice (e.g., `4d6 k3`)
- `XdY kl N` - Keep lowest N dice
- `2d20 adv` / `2d20 dis` - Advantage/Disadvantage
- `XdY sN` - Count successes ≥ N (e.g., `10d6 s5`)
- `XdY sN fM` - Count successes ≥N and failures ≤M
- `XdY tN rM` - Target number N with raises every M

**Savage Worlds**
- `sX` - Savage Worlds roll (trait die with wild die)
- `sX wY` - Specify wild die size (e.g., `s8 w6`)
- `eX` - Extras roll (single acing die)
- `4e6` - Multiple extras rolls

**Other Systems**
- `XdF` - Fudge/FATE dice
- `XdC` - Carcosa dice
- `XW` - West End Games D6 (with wild die)
- `pX` - Sword World power roll

**Advanced Features**
- `X--Y` - Gygax range roll (e.g., `1--100`)
- `NxExpression` - Batch roll (e.g., `5x2d6`)
- `@var := Expression` - Variable assignment
- `Expression[min:max]` - Bound result
- Arithmetic: `+`, `-`, `*`, `/`, `%`
- `--flag` - Flags for special behaviors

## Examples

### Basic Dice Roll
```
/roll dice:2d6+3
> 🎲 Roll: 2d6+3
> Result: 11
> Breakdown: 4 + 4 + 3
```

### Acing Dice
```
/roll dice:d6 acing:true
> 🎲 Roll: d6
> Result: 14
> Breakdown: [6+6+2]
```

### Wild Die Roll
```
/wild trait:8 modifier:2 target:4
> 🎲 Wild Die Roll: d8
> Trait Die: [8+3] = 11
> Wild Die: 4 = 4
> Final Result: 13 (used trait die)
> Success with 2 raises (TN: 4)
```

### Initiative
```
/initiative deal characters:Grog, Valeria, Zephyr
> 🎴 Initiative Cards Dealt:
> Grog: K of ♠️ Spades
> Valeria: 7 of ♥️ Hearts
> Zephyr: 🃏 Red Joker
```

## Bot Setup

1. Create a Discord application at https://discord.com/developers/applications
2. Create a bot user
3. Enable the following intents:
   - Guilds
   - Guild Messages
   - Message Content
4. Invite the bot to your server with the `applications.commands` scope
5. Copy the bot token and client ID to your `.env` file

## License

MIT

## Credits

Based on the original [Savagebot](https://github.com/alessio29/savagebot) by alessio29, rewritten in JavaScript.
